src/content/blog/2026-02-20-ai-assisted-development.md, before:

---
id: 2026-02-20-ai-assisted-development
title: How AI Helps Build DevPulse
date: 2026-02-20
category: improvement
summary: A practical look at how AI supports our *development workflow* from planning and implementation to QA and documentation.
---

AI has become part of our day-to-day delivery process, not as a replacement for engineering judgment, but as a force multiplier for speed and consistency. We start by translating feature requests into *clear implementation steps*, then use AI assistance to draft and refine the first pass of component changes.

For this release cycle, AI support was most visible in the refactor work across *Dashboard, Sidebar, and AI Assistant*. It helped us quickly compare UI alternatives, simplify repetitive edits, and keep boundaries between hooks, data, and presentation components clean.

We also use an *AI-assisted review loop* to catch risks earlier. This includes scanning for route mismatches, state propagation issues, and interaction regressions before final validation. Every change is still verified through normal quality gates (`build` and `lint`) and manual UX checks.

Beyond code, AI is helping us keep documentation and release communication synchronized with implementation. Architecture notes, directory docs, and update posts are maintained in a *markdown-first workflow*, which makes publishing changes faster and easier to audit.

Commit message:

feat: enhance blog rendering with markdown-to-HTML conversion, improve Thai Date Converter UI, and update related documentation; add new blog posts and refine existing content

src/content/blog/2026-02-20-ai-assisted-development.md, after:

---
id: 2026-02-20-ai-assisted-development
title: AI ช่วยพัฒนา DevPulse อย่างไร / How AI Helps Build DevPulse
date: 2026-02-20
category: improvement
summary: มุมมองเชิงปฏิบัติว่า AI ช่วย *development workflow* ของเราตั้งแต่การวางแผน การพัฒนา ไปจนถึง QA และเอกสารอย่างไร / A practical look at how AI supports our *development workflow* from planning and implementation to QA and documentation.
---

## TH

อัปเดตวันที่ 20 กุมภาพันธ์ 2026 บทความนี้สรุปแนวทางใช้งาน AI แบบเชิงปฏิบัติใน workflow การพัฒนา DevPulse

### แนวทางที่ใช้

- AI เป็นตัวช่วยเพิ่มความเร็ว ไม่ใช่ตัวแทนวิจารณญาณวิศวกรรม เราเริ่มจากแปลงคำขอฟีเจอร์ให้เป็น *implementation steps* ที่ชัดเจนก่อนลงมือ
- ในรอบนี้ AI ช่วยมากในงานรีแฟกเตอร์ *Dashboard, Sidebar และ AI Assistant* โดยเฉพาะการเทียบตัวเลือก UI และลดงานแก้ซ้ำ
- ใช้ *AI-assisted review loop* เพื่อตรวจ route mismatch, state propagation issues และ interaction regressions ก่อนเข้ากระบวนการตรวจคุณภาพหลัก
- งานทุกชิ้นยังผ่าน quality gates มาตรฐาน (`build`, `lint`) และการตรวจ UX แบบ manual
- นอกจากโค้ด AI ยังช่วยให้เอกสาร release และ architecture sync กับ implementation ได้เร็วขึ้นผ่านแนวทาง *markdown-first workflow*

## EN

This February 20, 2026 note summarizes a practical approach to using AI in the DevPulse development workflow.

### Applied Workflow

- AI is used as a speed multiplier, not a replacement for engineering judgment; we start by translating requests into clear *implementation steps*.
- In this cycle, AI support was strongest in refactoring *Dashboard, Sidebar, and AI Assistant*, especially for UI option comparison and repetitive edit reduction.
- We run an *AI-assisted review loop* to catch route mismatches, state propagation issues, and interaction regressions before final quality checks.
- Every change still goes through standard quality gates (`build`, `lint`) and manual UX checks.
- Beyond code, AI also helps keep release and architecture docs synced through a *markdown-first workflow*.
